IDs are certainly unique and indeed easier to work with, although the dataset doesn't have persons, who have exactly the same name. So, processing Kirjeldus column a little bit is necessary considering only the part of "user with id '???'". The other part doesn't give us much as the whole data is based on one course.

It's a good point, that Sündmuse kontekst, Komponent and Kirjeldus has an overlap. Considering all of them would get quite confused. The most problematic part is Sündmuse kontekst as there are indeed too many unique values. And for example if the value is "Foorum: Foorum" and same row's Komponent value is "Foorum", then there's no new information. But on the other hand, there are important combinations, when Sündmuse konktekst starts with "Test" or "VPL". Both usually have a identificator of date by it, which exapands the possibilities of analysis.

I agree with Siim, that Sündmuse nimi should be the most important. But, I would suggest also to at least consider Komponent as well, because it basically answers the question: "What component has 1:1 relation with Sündmuse nimi?"

I like Zhaosi's idea about Aeg column. In addition of just the date, there is a certain time as well, which for sure gives many opportunities to see whether a time range has an influence to performance, reflects directly students' capability or even gives an idea if a test is rather difficult (see how many have performed the test late as possible) or easy (probably the test is done quickly as possible).

All values of Päritolu are actually not "web", I see there is "ws" as well.

About frequency of access - I think it's like 50 - 50 situation. When you understand a topic very well, then usually you don't do the test multiple times. But one might use this possibility just to learn. So, in the end one student who performed a test only once vs other who performed for example ten times, can be actually at the same level.

In my opinion IP-aadress is not a relyable data. There's just so many chances to change the IP and if even not by your own iniative, then for example your service provider can do it time to time.

About requirement 3. I think this is kind of an extra point to cover. As we start making analysis for first and second point, then one way or another we will come up with some interesting patterns. If we have a working model, which covers first and second requirement, then we can statistically see some patterns. For example students with grade "E" have done more tests (based on second requirement) or students who have performed significantly higher number of tests have lower score in final test (Kontrolltöö). But just to be clear, this is just my hunch and maybe I am wrong.

What I noticed from Kristiina's ideas. I definitely agree that a struggle can be considered with both results of tests and homeworks. Visiting (logging in) to Moodle is can and cannot be the case. For example, I remember from my experience of "Programming" course that the submission boxes were in Moodle and there were automated tests. So, for example if a student wants to get a maximum of a homework or maybe there's a possibility to get bonus points as well, then they use automated test form frequently, which means the increase of logging in numbers. But, I might be overthinking as we don't know the whole content of practices.

Predicting final grade based on the first weeks activity. Of course it would be better if the percentage of this part would be more than 30%, but this can be just an approach of many approaches to test. We can even predict the final grade based on only the first test. Of course, that way probabaly most of the students have a grade "A".

I got no objections to Siim's and Zhaosi's further approach ideas. I will just add two ideas/thoughts to sum up. 

A struggling student seems to be someone, who: A) completes significantly less number of tests than the average number of this course and also has lower scores than average; B) completes just significantly more number of tests. Why B) is only a one-part idea compared to A) is that you basically try and try, but you can't get a good result, which seems to be obviously as a struggle. Yes, we can consider that by completing tests you learn as well, but ideally if you feel you can handle a topic then you prove it by completing the test. The more times you make the test, the more it seems as a struggle. For A) of course we can say that one might be focusing only on final test, which gives more points, but in most cases it seems like "I don't care", which kind of a classifies as a struggle.

Figuring out a starting point is a bit problematic. If the project would be done by one person then I would first spend some time just analysing the data (gathering file contents to one file, calculating frequencies, eliminating unnecessary columns etc.) to get some ideas. Then look further step by step. But obviously everyone has different working rates and at the same time we all need to be on the same track. So, I propose that maybe Siim and Zhaosi could map some crucial points and I don't mind taking tasks. Of course, I can't speak about Kristiina and what does she think about that, but it just seems that Siim and Zhaosi could have the leading role in this project. 